The physical material asset.
In this video, we'll cover what is the physical material, what are its most important properties,
and then we'll get a chance to use it.
Inside the Unity Editor A note about two D versus three D Unity has two separate physics systems in
two D, the rigid body, two D references the physics material two RD asset.
This has an SE in the title in three d The rigid body references the physic material without an se physic
material asset in three d physic material is the asset that describes how to handle colliding objects,
specifically friction and bouncy ness.
The physical material to RD asset.
The same goes in to DX.
Let's take a look at an example in three D.
Select a game object with a physic material in the inspector window.
We can look at all the components.
Let's browse the properties.
Our focus will be dynamic friction.
The friction used when already moving.
Usually it's a value between zero and one.
A value of zero feels like ice, static friction.
This is the friction that's used when an object is laying still on a surface.
Usually it's a value from 0 to 1.
A value of zero feels like ice.
Bouncy ness.
How bouncy is the surface?
A value of zero will not bounce.
A value of one will bounce without any loss of energy.
Friction.
Combine how the friction of two colliding objects is combined bounce.
Combine how the bouncy ness of two objects is combined.
Let's take a look at a demo.
Sliding cubes begin will play the scene will create a physic material from scratch and we'll play with
its properties.
In this scene, let's open up our sliding cubes.
Begin.
We'll give it a run and we'll see that the cubes interact in the same way.
They slowly fall down, turning over themselves with the default.
We do not yet have physic materials applied.
Let's go ahead and create some.
We'll leave one of these cubes as the default and then we'll create a few experiments for the other
two.
So if we right click on the folder we created.
We can go to create and physic material because we're in a 3D scene, it's important that we pick physic
material.
We'll call this one default.
And we'll leave it at those default settings.
Now, let's create another one.
This one will make it very bouncy.
And we'll use the default values for the first, as I mentioned, and then the bouncy one will increase
the bouncy ness to the highest value of one.
And now we'll create the third wheel right click.
We create physical material and this one will make it a very slippery or slippy one.
That will be with no dynamic friction and no static friction to show an extreme.
We'll leave the bouncy ness at the default.
Now let's assign them.
We can see the highlight here on the left one, we'll leave that as default.
These are all set up identically, but I gave them a unique name just to hint where we should use so
bouncy we'll drag that into the box Collider.
And then group three, this one here, we will go ahead and we'll add the slippi.
Now let's play the scene again.
And we should see them fall in a different way.
You can see that we got different results.
In the next video, we'll take a look at three D joints.